## Q and A Content

#### Should JSON and XML formats, that lack so many H-Factors, be discouraged for implementing hypermedia?
The short answer is 'yes.' To implement hypermedia clients, you'll need information about the Objects, Addresses, and Actions that are allowed for a particular user at runtime. There are ways to use _addtional_ files to load with the XML/JSON data that hold the hypermedia information (see HAL-FORMS and POD) but these mean the client has to understand more than one format in order to interact with your services.

### What happens when the data is served by a backend service like a database?
Serving data directly from the DB to the web is pretty tricky. Any change in the data tables means a change in the representation and databases don't usually output any OAA information the client can use. Typically, the best thing to do is to place a translator between the API and the storage. Usually that's some code that converts the raw data into objects and then the objects into a web format (like XML/JSON or a hypermedia format). Check out the [Message Translator](http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/MessageTranslator.html) pattern from [Gregor Hohpe](http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/ramblings.html) and the [WeSTL](https://rwcbook.github.io/wstl-spec/) format for ideas on how to do this.

### Isn't it better and efficient to make Id out of the template and use this template to send to the client. The client itself then uses the id to lookup the actual template cache it and consume it?
'Better' might be debatable but that's certainly an option. This is essentially the POV of HAL designer, Mike Kelly. He doesn't think responses should include FORMS. Instead he likes to put that into code. Others have used an external format (like HAL-FORMS) to do the same thing. w/ HAL-FORMS, the actions are separate representations with their own unique resource ids (URLs) and clients can chose to cache them separately to save space/time.

### The format returned doesn't dictate the design/layout of the interaction
For examples we are showing here that is correct. The metadata about the actions does not include layout. HTML does it pretty much the same way. The FORM has some default layout but that is not fixed. CSS can be used to modify the layout. If controlling layout is important (from the server) then CSS or something like that can be used, too.  I don't find may API servers that do that, though.

### How would I describe an interaction that is search driven like for example the Amazon search where the interaction is driven off search text box and then you have additional interaction via Facets on the left side (which seem like result entities but are other actions really though the actions are not really tied to entities?) I'm really having a tough time modeling the faceting interaction in a Hypermedia way.
If I understand you correctly, you're thinking of modeling an interaction that has `dependent` fields. Do one search ("give me all the hats") and then see a set of other properties of hats to narrow the search ("bowlers", "trilbies", etc.). The way I've done this in the past is to return each representation with additional search actions. The first search asks for category ("hats") and, when the list of hats is returned, more search actions are included (e.g. a search w/ checkboxes, multiple search actions, etc.). You don't need to model everything as a single interaction.
